
  Don’t overestimate yourself, but don’t underestimate who you could be.
  That’s a much better way of thinking about it. You know psychologists of the careless sort,
  I would say have been pushing the idea of self-esteem for a very
  a long time probably since the early 60s . You should be content with yourself the way you are.It’s like,
  no, you  should’t. Seriously, like, You’re nowhere near what you could be. You’re not even close. Right,
  And so that’s a way more optimistic message like you ain’t seen nothing yet. That’s the right message,
  and so I would say “Don’t overestimate yourself now but don’t underestimate your future self”.
  You have so much influence as an individual, if you get your act together that you can’t believe it .
  There isn’t anything that has more influence than that .
  You have all the power that there is right where you are to put things right around you,
  you start now, you develop a noble vision, right, of who you could be. You start to put that into
  practice develop some discipline familiarize yourself with the great works of the past Learn to read,
  learn to write, learn to speak, learn to think. Man you'll be deadly. What you could bring to the table
  that hasn't been brought to the table for years is an emphasis on individual responsibility
  And the right way to do that as far as I'm concerned is to start with yourselves develop a vision for
  your life, You start to think about if you could be, who you could be, what would that look like?
  That's the beginning of a mature philosophy of being , If you could be the person that you would admire
  Who would that person be? How would you configure yourself? How would you configure your career your
  education, your family, your use of time outside of work? If you wanted to be the noblest person that
  you could be who was adopting the maximum amount of responsibility how would that look? Then you need
  a strategy to put that into place . And that's the way you change things property and also the way you do
  the least amount of harm while you're changing them And so it should be an individual, individual focused
  set of ideas And that way you can sidestep the identity politics traps And that would be a very good thing
  And I think a modern conservatism which isn't really all that distinguishable from a classical liberalism,
  as it turns out, is to put tremendous stress on the responsibility of the individual And one of the things
  that's wonderful about that as far as I'm concerned and I made reference to this a few minute ago is that
  you need a meaning to offset the tragedy of life. Otherwise, you just suffer stupidly, and you tend to make
  people around you suffer the same way , The way that you find the meaning is by adopting as much responsibility
  as you can And what's also so fascinating about that is ,you know, you're characterized by an indefinite potential
  And it isn't easy to understand exactly what that is that potential, But you know, it's what people call you on
  when they say, you know, you're not living up to your potential. Whatever that is That potential will be called
  forth from you as a consequence of adoption of responsibility because it won't manifest itself unless you take
  on a load You're not going to develop in all the ways you could develop unless you set yourself a serious
  challenge because it takes the challenge to pull that out of you and also to motivate you to rid yourself of
  all the weaknesses and personality flaws that you've accumulated across the years and to let those disappear
  and burn off ,You need to load yourself up before the demands of life will be such that you will discipline
  yourself property And a noble goal is a very good way of beginning that . the truth of the matter is as far as
  I'm concerned, that, each of us has enough potential character power of character, let's say, If it's property
  manifested to contend with that in a noble way and to rise above it and to transcend and to deal with it in large
  part because we can make the world a much better place that it is for each of us individually and for out
  families and for our community And we can constrain the malevolence at least in our own hearts and perhaps have
  a positive effect on those around us as a consequence And that actually does make things better and we actually
  can do that. And that's where the meaning in life is to be found, And that meaning the goes along with the
  adoption of that kind of responsibility is actually the antidote to the suffering, You know that perfectly well
  because all of you need a reason to get out of bed in the morning especially on a rough morning when things
  aren't going so well in your life And there will be plenty of times, when things aren't going so well in your
  life and you still need a reason to get up and get moving and get out there, And if you have adopted the
  responsibility at an individual level to make things better given how bad they are , if you've adopted the
  responsibility to make things better then you have a reason to get up And so one of the things that I've been
  stressing to people is that there is very little difference between the meaning in life that gives you
  fulfillment and that engages you in existence and the willingness to shoulder as much individual responsibility
  as you can possibly handle , Those are the same things, And that's a really useful thing to know, And you
  kind of know this,right? Everybody knows this, because first of all if you're not living up to your
  responsibilities even to take care of yourself the probability that you're going to be ashamed of that at some
  level is extraordinarily high. And so your own soul tells you that you're in error, so to speak . But also
  if you look at who you spontaneously admire which is a good indication of where your value system really sits
  you'll see that the people you admire are always people who take responsibility for themselves and responsibility
  for their family and responsibility for their community. Get your act together, You've got things to do in the
  world, The absence of your full being in the world leaves a hole that, it is filled by terrible things, at
  minimum So at minimum you have an ethical responsibility to ensure that the world doesn't devolve into something
  approximating hell And at maximum you have the responsibility again, the ethical, and it's a heavy ethical
  responsibility to do everything that's in your power to make things as good as you can possibly make them
  in the sophisticated manner that takes you and your family and your community into account. And it's on you
  Right? And that's meaning. You know, people say, Well, I'd like to have a meaningful life, It's like, well,
  fair enough. But the price that you pay for the meaning that transcends tragedy is the adoption of responsibility
  for the catastrophe of existence. But that enables you it makes you into someone strong and someone competent
  and someone who's worthwhile and who lives in a manner that justifies their own suffering And that's what
  there's nothing better than you can possibly so than that, Although there is a very large number of ways
  of looking at the world or perhaps a near infinite number of ways of looking at the world there isn't near
  infinite number of ways of acting in the world in a manner that actually is successful, So there are constraints
  on how you can interact with the world in a successful manner. Let's assume that you don't want undo pain and
  anxiety. We could just start with that, I think that's a reasonable proposition, You can tolerate some pain and
  anxiety, if it's in the service of something greater, obviously. But I just mean pointless pain and anxiety
  We don't want any more of that than is necessary, And that means that you have to take care of yourself to
  some degree, But the manner in which you take care of yourself is severely constrained, This is partly why
  you have to be intelligent and careful and plot your way through life properly, you have to take care of
  yourself today but you have to take care of yourself today in a way that's doesn't interfere with you taking
  care of yourself tomorrow and next week and next month and next year and five years from now and ten years from
  now. So you can't do just what you want to in the next hour, Because if it's impulsive pleasure seeking let's
  say something like that excess alcohol use or excess drug use or careless sexual behavior or betrayal of
  people to gain you something in the moment you're going to pay for that, You're going to pay for it tomorrow
  you're going to pay for it next week and next month, the next year. So because you're going to exist in the
  future and because you have to live with yourself, there's only a certain number of ways that you can act
  that are going to work but it's more than that












































